Introduction:

A very popular Indian Dessert prepared all over India on the occasion of Diwali. Crispy Chakali and scrumptious Karanji are the two special dishes that do not have substitute on Diwali. Though preparation of Karanji requires little extra time and efforts, the taste is worth of trying it. One major advantage of Karanji is it has good shelf life, it can be stored for weeks and can be used as dessert as well as snacks. In-case, you haven't tasted Karanji at all, this Diwali give it a try. Here is the recipe.

Preparation time : 30 mts
Cooking time : 30 mts
Serves : 4 to 6 people

Ingredients:
For Dough

    1 cup All Purpose Flour / Maida
    1/4 cup Sooji / Rawa
    2 tsp Oil
    1/2 cup warm Milk
    pinch of Salt

For Filling

    1 tsp Poppy Seeds / KhasKhas
    1 tsp Sooji / Rawa
    1 cup Dry Grated Coconut
    1 cup Powdered Sugar
    1/4 tsp Cardamom powder
    Assorted Nuts

Extra

    2 tsp Rice Flour
    2 tsp Ghee
    Oil for frying

Method
For Cover / Coating

    Heat up 2 tsp oil. Mix all purpose flour, sooji, salt in to a bowl and pour hot oil over it. Mix well till the time mixture becomes crumbly.
    Pour warm milk slowly to make medium consistency dough, not too hard and too soft.
    Cover and keep the dough for 30 mts.

For Filling / Stuffing

    Dry roast sooji and poppy seeds separately till the time they get light brown color.
    Add coconut to dry roasted sooji and poppy seeds, add sugar, cardamom powder, dry fruits and mix well.
    To make Karanji
    Take the dough and again knead to make it smooth. Divide dough in to 3 equal parts. Roll them in to three thin roti.
    Mix rice flour and ghee to make it smooth and creamy.
    Now take one thin roti, spread rice flour mixture evenly on it, place another roti on the top of it, again spread rice flour mixture.
    Now place third roti, roll it evenly from all the sides to make it little thin. Again spread some rice flour mixture.

Now start to roll these three rotis together like Swiss Roll.

    Stretch it out little bit, now divide it in to equal parts.
    Take ball and roll like poori, add stuffing, apply milk around its edges and seal the karanjiwell.
    Use fork and make some design around karanji.
    Now deep fry till the time it gets nice golden color.




